src/sphinx/shell.rst, before:

The Shell Agent
===============

.. highlight:: groovy

We have already used the console shell provided by fjåge many times. This shell is implemented by the `ShellAgent` class as we have seen before in the `initrc.groovy` scripts. Let's take a slightly deeper look at the shell agent in this chapter.

Shell commands
--------------

The default shell provided by fjåge is a Groovy shell, and can execute any valid Groovy code. A few standard commands, variables and closures are made available. Just typing `help` will provide a list of commands that are available:

.. code-block:: console

    bash$ ./fjage.sh 
    > help
    help [topic] - provide help on a specified topic
    ps - list all the agents running on the local container
    who - display list of variables in workspace
    run - run a Groovy script
    println - display message on console
    delay - delay execution by the specified number of milliseconds
    shutdown - shutdown the local platform
    logLevel - set loglevel (optionally for a named logger)
    subscribe - subscribe to notifications from a named topic
    unsubscribe - unsubscribe from notifications for a named topic
    shellImport - add specified package/classes to list of imports
    agent - return an agent id for the named agent
    agentForService - find an agent id providing the specified service
    agentsForService - get a list of all agent ids providing the specified service
    send - send the given message
    request - send the given request and wait for a response
    receive - wait for a message
    > 

Further help on an individual topic can be obtained by typing `help` followed by the topic name. You are encouraged to explore the help.

The commands in the shell are executed in the context of the `ShellAgent` (e.g. messages send are send using this agent). Any messages received by the `ShellAgent` are simply displayed.

.. tip:: If you wish to add your own closures or variables, you can do so by customizing initialization script. Initialization scripts can be added to the `ShellAgent` using the `addInitrc` method.

Remote shell over TCP/IP
------------------------

If we wanted to provide a remote shell that users could `telnet` into, rather than a console shell, we would replace `ConsoleShell` with a `TcpShell` and specify a TCP/IP port number that is to provide the interactive shell. Here's what the resulting `initrc.groovy` would look like::

    import org.arl.fjage.*
    import org.arl.fjage.shell.*

    platform = new RealTimePlatform()
    container = new Container(platform)
    shell = new ShellAgent(new TcpShell(8001), new GroovyScriptEngine())
    container.add 'shell', shell
    // add other agents to the container here
    platform.start()

We could then access the shell using `telnet`:

.. code-block:: console

    bash$ telnet localhost 8001
    Trying localhost...
    Connected to localhost
    Escape character is '^]'.
    > ps
    shell: org.arl.fjage.shell.ShellAgent - IDLE
    >

GUI shell using Java Swing
--------------------------

Although the console shell is simple and lightweight, sometimes it is convenient to have a graphical shell with enhanced functionality. A Java Swing based GUI shell can be started in the `initrc.groovy` like this::

    import org.arl.fjage.*
    import org.arl.fjage.shell.*

    platform = new RealTimePlatform()
    container = new Container(platform)
    shell = new ShellAgent(new SwingShell(), new GroovyScriptEngine())
    container.add 'shell', shell
    // add other agents to the container here
    platform.start()

An option already exists in the default `initrc.groovy` to use the GUI shell. To invoke this, simply start fjåge using `./fjage.sh -gui`. A sample session using the GUI shell is shown below.

.. image:: _static/gui.png
   :alt: fjåge SwingShell GUI
   :align: center

The GUI shell displays a separate list in which unsolicited notifications are displayed. Clicking on responses or unsolicited notifications allows closer examination of the messages in the details tab. The GUI can be customized from Groovy shell scripts. Menu items and custom tabbed panels can be added and managed using `guiAddMenu`, `guiGetMenu`, `guiRemoveMenu`, `guiAddPanel`, `guiGetPanel` and `guiRemovePanel` commands. Examples of how to use these are shown in the help available for each command. A following sample script adds a menu item and a tabbed panel to the GUI::

    if (defined('gui')) {    // only call GUI functions if in GUI shell
      guiAddMenu 'Sample', 'Do something', {
        println 'Just do it!'
      }, [acc: 'meta D']
      guiAddPanel 'Demo', new javax.swing.JPanel()
    }

After executing this script, a new menu item is created. Once invoked by clicking or using the accelerator key `meta-D`, 'do something' is displayed. The script also adds a blank JPanel in a tab called 'Demo'.

Commit message:

"ps" now lists agents on all containers; command "services" added to list services on all containers

src/sphinx/shell.rst, after:

The Shell Agent
===============

.. highlight:: groovy

We have already used the console shell provided by fjåge many times. This shell is implemented by the `ShellAgent` class as we have seen before in the `initrc.groovy` scripts. Let's take a slightly deeper look at the shell agent in this chapter.

Shell commands
--------------

The default shell provided by fjåge is a Groovy shell, and can execute any valid Groovy code. A few standard commands, variables and closures are made available. Just typing `help` will provide a list of commands that are available:

.. code-block:: console

    bash$ ./fjage.sh 
    > help
    help [topic] - provide help on a specified topic
    ps - list all the agents
    services - lists all services provided by agents
    who - display list of variables in workspace
    run - run a Groovy script
    println - display message on console
    delay - delay execution by the specified number of milliseconds
    shutdown - shutdown the local platform
    logLevel - set loglevel (optionally for a named logger)
    subscribe - subscribe to notifications from a named topic
    unsubscribe - unsubscribe from notifications for a named topic
    shellImport - add specified package/classes to list of imports
    agent - return an agent id for the named agent
    agentForService - find an agent id providing the specified service
    agentsForService - get a list of all agent ids providing the specified service
    send - send the given message
    request - send the given request and wait for a response
    receive - wait for a message
    > 

Further help on an individual topic can be obtained by typing `help` followed by the topic name. You are encouraged to explore the help.

The commands in the shell are executed in the context of the `ShellAgent` (e.g. messages send are send using this agent). Any messages received by the `ShellAgent` are simply displayed.

.. tip:: If you wish to add your own closures or variables, you can do so by customizing initialization script. Initialization scripts can be added to the `ShellAgent` using the `addInitrc` method.

Remote shell over TCP/IP
------------------------

If we wanted to provide a remote shell that users could `telnet` into, rather than a console shell, we would replace `ConsoleShell` with a `TcpShell` and specify a TCP/IP port number that is to provide the interactive shell. Here's what the resulting `initrc.groovy` would look like::

    import org.arl.fjage.*
    import org.arl.fjage.shell.*

    platform = new RealTimePlatform()
    container = new Container(platform)
    shell = new ShellAgent(new TcpShell(8001), new GroovyScriptEngine())
    container.add 'shell', shell
    // add other agents to the container here
    platform.start()

We could then access the shell using `telnet`:

.. code-block:: console

    bash$ telnet localhost 8001
    Trying localhost...
    Connected to localhost
    Escape character is '^]'.
    > ps
    shell
    >

GUI shell using Java Swing
--------------------------

Although the console shell is simple and lightweight, sometimes it is convenient to have a graphical shell with enhanced functionality. A Java Swing based GUI shell can be started in the `initrc.groovy` like this::

    import org.arl.fjage.*
    import org.arl.fjage.shell.*

    platform = new RealTimePlatform()
    container = new Container(platform)
    shell = new ShellAgent(new SwingShell(), new GroovyScriptEngine())
    container.add 'shell', shell
    // add other agents to the container here
    platform.start()

An option already exists in the default `initrc.groovy` to use the GUI shell. To invoke this, simply start fjåge using `./fjage.sh -gui`. A sample session using the GUI shell is shown below.

.. image:: _static/gui.png
   :alt: fjåge SwingShell GUI
   :align: center

The GUI shell displays a separate list in which unsolicited notifications are displayed. Clicking on responses or unsolicited notifications allows closer examination of the messages in the details tab. The GUI can be customized from Groovy shell scripts. Menu items and custom tabbed panels can be added and managed using `guiAddMenu`, `guiGetMenu`, `guiRemoveMenu`, `guiAddPanel`, `guiGetPanel` and `guiRemovePanel` commands. Examples of how to use these are shown in the help available for each command. A following sample script adds a menu item and a tabbed panel to the GUI::

    if (defined('gui')) {    // only call GUI functions if in GUI shell
      guiAddMenu 'Sample', 'Do something', {
        println 'Just do it!'
      }, [acc: 'meta D']
      guiAddPanel 'Demo', new javax.swing.JPanel()
    }

After executing this script, a new menu item is created. Once invoked by clicking or using the accelerator key `meta-D`, 'do something' is displayed. The script also adds a blank JPanel in a tab called 'Demo'.
